# 50 States Project

By Abigail Andrews, Emma Sheridan, and Wil Troxel <br />
<br />
We implemented a cross-country road trip planner using a constraint satisfaction problem combined with a branch and bound algorithm. We ran our code over 10 national park destinations to generate a roadtrip path plan. We also used code from Randy Olsen to run a genetic algorithm over our 10 destinations. Both algorithms successfully generated the same optimized path. We also implemented unit tests to ensure the correctness of our algorithm. We used timer functions to time the branch and bound and genetic algorithms to find that the genetic algorithm was much faster that the branch and bound algorithm, as expected given the worst case exponential run time of branch and bound (~8 seconds versus ~24 seconds). Below is a summary of our code files.
<br />

### Constraint Satisfaction Problem using Branch and Bound

#### src/opt.rs

- Implements a csp containing timestamp variables where each variable is associated with a corresponding vertex in the graph, except that the first and last timestamp visit the same vertex
- Constrains the csp so that each variable has a different value
- Uses the branch and bound solver to find the path with minimal distance by passing in a cost function
- Generates an ordered list representing the order to visit each vertex in the graph as well as the total cost for the trip

#### src/opt/pub_tests.rs

- Tests written to verify the correctness of the code
- test_tsp_4 tests our roadtrip function on 10 national park destinations where costs were generated using the Google Maps Distance Matrix API
- Implemented timers to time function calls to our csp using bnb

#### src/csp.rs, src/fd.rs, src/lib.rs

- Code taken from HW5 to implement our constraint optimization problem, our branch and bound solver, our fd constraint type, and our library functions

#### src/main.rs

- Runs our branch and bound solver on 10 selected locations, prints the order to visit the locations and the total distance, also calculates the time it takes to compute the route

### Genetic Algorithm

#### trip.py

- Code taken from Randal S. Olson "Computing the optimal road trip across the U.S." (© Randal S. Olson http://www.randalolson.com/)
- Calls GoogleMaps distance matrix API to fetch distance and duration data between all combinations of data points
- Outputs the from point, to point, distance, and duration to my-waypoints-dist-dur.tsv file to later be parsed by algorithm
- Runs genetic algorithm over the given waypoints for 5000 generations and 100 as population size
- Outputs an ordered list of waypoints representing the best found path after all the generations
- We added code to time the genetic function

#### my-waypoints-dist-dur7.numbers

- Example output generated by the API calls

### How to run

To run the branch and bound solver, you'll need the whole final-project folder. Run main.rs to see solver work for the 10 selected locations. To run the genetic algorithm on the same 10 locations, run trip.py. Our Google Maps API key in there should work for now, but if run many more times we will run out of free credits.

### What we learned

- How to work with Google Maps API
- Became familiar with different techniques to
  solve the traveling salesman problem: A\*, greedy and brute force algorithms,
  variations of genetic algorithms, branch and bound
- Valuable experience coding in a team
- The intricacies of genetic algorithms
- The differences and similarities between the various ways we could have chosen to solve the traveling salesman problem

### What we wish went differently

- Being more on top of starting early
- Additional features:
  - Add gas stations, rest stops, and places to stay at a frequency that the user decides
  - Additional customization such as EV charging locations and wheelchair accessible rest stops,
  - Allow user to decide what they want the algorithm to focus on: time, cost, scenery, etc.
  - Create an interactive map as our output
  - Run both algorithms with the entire dataset of all National Parks
- Spent a lot of time trying to figure out how to modify the existing genetic algorithm, when instead we just ended up making our own algorithm. Without this wasted time, we likely could have implemented at least a couple of the additional features.
